 loop statement allows us to execute a statement or group of statements multiple times.

Python programming language provides following types of loops to handle looping requirements.

While loop:
Repeats a statement or group of statements while a given condition is TRUE. It tests the condition before executing the loop body.

For loop:
Executes a sequence of statements multiple times 

Difference between 'for' loop and 'while' loop:-

For Loops allow you to run through the loop when you know how many times you'd like it to run through the problem such as for (var i; i < 10; i++); this will continually increase i untill that condition returns false, any number can replace the 10 even a variable. but it will quit once the condition is no longer being met. This is best used again for loops that you know how when they should stop.

While Loops allow you a little more flexability in what you put in it, and when it will stop such as while ( i < 10) you can also substitue in a boolean(true/false) for 10 as well as many other types of varibles.

The key difference between the two is organization between them, if you were going to increase to 10 it'd be a lot cleaner and more readable to use a for statement, but on the other hand if you were to use an existing variable in your program in your loop parameters it'd be cleaner to just wright a while loop. In the For loop you MUST create a new variable, thats not true for the While loop.

Difference: - while loop is condition dependent and does not necessarily need the content to be evaluated - for loop requires content to iterate over Similarity: - both can iterate over a list or structure, but you must define your content to iterate through beneath the while condition whereas for loops define the content index and type at start

Their similarity is that both "while" and "for" are used for repeating a loop. Their difference is that we use "for" when we know how many times we need to re-run the loop. When we don't know how many times are needed we use "while".
